## Introduction
HTML DOM allows JavaScript to react to HTML events.

---

## Reacting to Events
JavaScript can be executed when an event occurs, such as when a user clicks on an HTML element.

To execute code when a user clicks on an element, add JavaScript code to an HTML event attribute:

```html
onclick=JavaScript
```
### Common HTML Events:

- When a user clicks the mouse
    
- When a web page has loaded
    
- When an image has been loaded
    
- When the mouse moves over an element
    
- When an input field is changed
    
- When an HTML form is submitted
    
- When a user strokes a key

---
## Example 1: Change Content on Click

The content of the `<h1>` element is changed when a user clicks on it:

### Example:
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<body>

<h2 onclick="this.innerHTML = 'Ooops!'">Click on this text!</h2>

</body>
</html>
```
---
## Example 2: Call Function from Event Handler

In this example, a function is called from the event handler:

### Example:
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<body>

<h2 onclick="changeText(this)">Click on this text!</h2>

<script>
function changeText(id) {
  id.innerHTML = "Ooops!";
}
</script>

</body>
</html>
```
---
## HTML Event Attributes

You can assign events to HTML elements using event attributes.

### Example: Assign `onclick` event to a button
```html
<button onclick="displayDate()">Try it</button>
```
---
## Assign Events Using the HTML DOM

You can also assign events to HTML elements using JavaScript.

### Example:
```html
<script>
document.getElementById("myBtn").onclick = displayDate;
</script>
```
---
## The `onload` and `onunload` Events

- **`onload`**: Triggered when the page loads.
    
- **`onunload`**: Triggered when the page is unloaded.
    

They can be used to check the visitor's browser type, load the proper version of the page, and handle cookies.

### Example:
```html
<body onload="checkCookies()">
```
---
## The `oninput` Event

The `oninput` event is used to perform actions while the user inputs data.

### Example:
```html
<input type="text" id="fname" oninput="upperCase()">
```
---
## The `onchange` Event

The `onchange` event is used to validate input fields when their content changes.

### Example:
```html
<input type="text" id="fname" onchange="upperCase()">
```
---
## The `onmouseover` and `onmouseout` Events

These events trigger a function when the user mouses over or out of an HTML element:

### Example:
```html
<button onmouseover="changeColor()">Mouse Over Me</button>
```
---
## The `onmousedown`, `onmouseup`, and `onclick` Events

These events are part of a mouse click:

1. **`onmousedown`**: Triggered when the mouse button is pressed.
    
2. **`onmouseup`**: Triggered when the mouse button is released.
    
3. **`onclick`**: Triggered when the click is completed.
    

### Example:
```HTML
<button onmousedown="mouseDown()" onmouseup="mouseUp()" onclick="clickEvent()">Click Me</button>
```
